well Adnan Abu hasna is a spokesperson
for the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees or H joins us now live from
Rafa good to have you with us so today
like many other days we're hearing more
reports of residential buildings being
hit a refugee camp in jabalia being hit
again what sort of Carnage is this
creating from what you can tell from I
assume you still have operations on the
ground
there yes I believe that destroying you
know jabalia cam again and again you
know would result in more frustration
more anger more Panic you know actually
as you as we see in your report that
people they don't know where to go
actually everything had been uh
destroyed you know yes we have uh some
colleagues still you know uh providing
services in health clinic and in the
shelters uh
there we have nearly I'm talking about
across the G stri we have nearly 1.2
million internally displaced persons in
our shelters across the GM some of them
are in
jabalia area and in Gaza City I can tell
you that the humanitarian situation now
it's not a catastrophe you are talking
about humanitarian tsunami
actually these areas people lack of
everything lack of food drinkable water
even hospitals you know they're
partially working now now they don't
have the capacity to receive to
receive fatalities or injured people
across the northern part of dri Adan I'm
wondering because I know usually Anda
has channels of communication for Israel
has Andra requested that Israeli forces
cease bombing civilian areas refug refug
camps and what kind of response do you
get you know we are sending to all
parties of the conflict you know or the
location the exact location of the GBS
and of our shelters our his clinics and
to the Israeli side you know so no one
can tell us after that that we don't
know that you have uh you know tens of
thousands people Sheltering and these
schools all the time we are sending
the the exact location to the Israeli
Israeli Army actually we don't have we
don't receive responses and despite that
there have been reports of un schools
having been hit in places like jabali
refugee camp
right yes of course and alur school as
example had been ha I believe twice or
three three times you know all the time
but in all over G across the STP we have
85 you know installations including
shelter that had been had 30 of them had
been hit directly and resulted in the
killing of 218 people and injured nearly
900 people from our staff as unra as un
staff nearly
130 staff had been killed since the
start of this escalation has onra ever
experienced something like this at now
never ever we never experience you know
something like that even the UN itself
you know nothing happened like that in
the history that the 130 stuff the UN
had been killed in 50 days it never
happened you know I personally I am with
unra you know and I survived three Wars
before that I what it's horrible it's
something un beli the the amount of
Destruction you know people that had
been killed and and injured I'm looking
that some figures of uh that's coming
from Ukraine about how many people that
had been you know killed I mean
civilians last August they are talking
about 9,000 people 9,000 civilians that
had been killed and 16,000 that had been
injured now we are talking in Gaza about
60,000 people that had been killed or
injured or missed actually no one can
rescue them they are under the rub you
are talking about 3% of Gaza population
that had been killed and injured if you
have a country of 50 million people you
will talk about 1.5 million people that
had been you know killed and it's
unbelievable what's going on we know
during the humanitarian
ceasefire or pause that happened Aid was
being delivered is Aid still being
delivered today and if so are you able
to distribute it at a time when it's
becoming more and more desperate because
people are being pushed into smaller and
smaller areas in the South and
everything is
becoming there's a shortage of
everything we're hearing from toilets to
drinking
water yes there is a like you know a
glimpse of hope during the humanitarian
pause that we succeeded you know to send
you know food medic and fuel to the
northern part of Gaz St but
unfortunately after it ended you know we
went again to square number one you know
where huge Shilling and distruction and
many people had been injured you know
nearly seven you know 700 people had
been killed since the the end of the
humanitarian post now they are pushing
you know people not only to the South
pushing people to the south of the South
so we have now we expected that we will
have in Rafa here more than 1 million
people you know in the coming days
actually now we have tens of thousand
families in the streets they are
erecting you know random things you know
pieces of nylon and and wood it's
raining now and we will see the disaster
after so if I understand you correctly
you're unable no Aid is coming in at
this point is that what you're saying as
these people sleep under nylon in the
rain part yeah no to the northern part
and Gaza City are not sending anymore
because the Israelis they are cutting
off all the roots but you know it is
coming through RAF crossing point we are
talking about a average of 50 trucks
it's about 5% only of the needed trucks
or the needed Aid that we used to get
through Shalom but why because you know
ra pring point is is not f up for you
know commercial like commercial CR it's
for bit strains only so the capacity of
Rafa pressing point will never meet the
needs of Gaza population now we are
getting 5 50 trucks 60 truck 70 trucks
and they want us to to distribute it to
more than two million people I believe
we will continue like that that
humanitarian work in the Gaza Strip will
for
very all right thank you so much Adan
Abu there